---
title: "General Topology Notes"
date: "2023-12-03"
tags: ["Math", "Topology", "General Topology"]
toc: true
categories: ["Notes", "Math"]
description: "Notes for general topology"
---

# Topology Spaces and Continuous Function

This is a note for general topology. The main reference is
[Topology](https://www.amazon.com/Topology-2nd-James-Munkres/dp/0131816292).

The note is written in [Pandoc Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown).

My [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Alex222222222222/TopologyNotes) for this note.

## Basic Definition of Topology

::: {#def:Topology .definition}
**Definition 1.1** (topology). *A ***topology*** on a set $\mathbb{X}$
is a collection $\mathbb{T}$ of subsets of $\mathbb{X}$ having the
following properties:*

-   *$\emptyset$ and $\mathbb{X}$ are in $\mathbb{T}$*

-   *The union of the elements of any sub collection of $\mathbb{T}$ is
    in $\mathbb{T}$*

-   *The intersection of the elements of any **finite** sub collection
    of $\mathbb{T}$ is in $\mathbb{T}$*
:::

::: {#def:TopologySpace .definition}
**Definition 1.2** (topology space). *A ***topological space*** is a set
$\mathbb{X}$ for which a topology $\mathbb{T}$ has been specified.*
:::

::: {#def:OpenSet .definition}
**Definition 1.3** (open set). *A ***open set*** $\mathbb{U}$ is a
subset of $\mathbb{X}$ that belongs to a topology $\mathbb{T}$ of
$\mathbb{X}$.*
:::

::: {#def:OpenSets .definition}
**Definition 1.4** (open sets). *A topology can also be called a ***open
sets****
:::

::: {#def:DiscreteTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.5** (discrete topology). *The set of all subsets of a set
$\mathbb{X}$ formed a topology called ***discrete topology****
:::

::: {#def:TrivialTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.6** (trivial topology). *The set consisting the set
$\mathbb{X}$ and $\emptyset$ only formed a topology of $\mathbb{X}$
called ***trivial topology****
:::

::: {#def:FiniteComplementTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.7** (finite complement topology). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a
set. Let $\mathbb{T}_{\mathit{f}}$ be the collection of all subsets
$\mathbb{U}$ of $\mathbb{X}$ such that $\mathbb{X} - \mathbb{U}$ either
if a **finite** [^1] of is all of $\mathbb{X}$. Then
$\mathbb{T}_{\mathit{f}}$ is a topology on $\mathbb{X}$, called the
***finite complement topology***.*
:::

::: {#def:Comparable .definition}
**Definition 1.8** (finer, larger, strictly finer, strictly larger,
coarser, smaller, strictly coarser, strictly smaller, comparable). *Let
$\mathbb{T}$ and $\mathbb{T'}$ be two topology on a given set
$\mathbb{X}$. If $\mathbb{T}$ is a subset of $\mathbb{T'}$, we say that
$\mathbb{T'}$ is ***finer*** or ***larger*** than $\mathbb{T}$. If
$\mathbb{T}$ is a proper subset of $\mathbb{T'}$, we say that
$\mathbb{T'}$ is ***strictly finer*** or ***strictly larger*** than
$\mathbb{T}$. We also say that $\mathbb{T}$ is ***coarser*** or
***smaller*** or ***strictly coarser*** or ***strictly smaller*** than
$\mathbb{T'}$. We say that $\mathbb{T}$ and $\mathbb{T'}$ is
***comparable*** if either $\mathbb{T}$ is a subset of $\mathbb{T'}$ or
$\mathbb{T'}$ is a subset of $\mathbb{T}$.*
:::

## Basis for a Topology

::: {#def:Basis .definition}
**Definition 1.9** (basis). *If $\mathbb{X}$ is a set, a ***basis*** for
a topology on $\mathbb{X}$ is a collection $\mathbb{B}$ of subsets of
$\mathbb{X}$ (called ***basis elements***) such that:*

-   *For each $x \in \mathbb{X}$, there is at least one basis element
    $B$ containing $x$*

-   *If $x$ belongs to the intersection of two basis elements $B_{1}$
    and $B_{2}$, then there is another element
    $x \in B_{3} \in \mathbb{B}$ such that
    $B_{3} \subseteq B_{1} \cap B_{2}$*
:::

::: {#def:TopologyGeneratedByBasis .definition}
**Definition 1.10** (topology generated by basis). *Let $\mathbb{B}$ be
a basis on $\mathbb{X}$ . Let $\mathbb{U}$ be a set containing all
subsets $U$ of $\mathbb{X}$ such that for each element $x \in U$, there
is $B \in \mathbb{B}$ that $x \in B \subseteq U$. Such $\mathbb{U}$
formed a topology on $\mathbb{X}$ , called ***topology $\mathbb{T}$
generated by $\mathbb{B}$****
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.1**. *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a set. Let $\mathbb{B}$ be a basis
for a topology $\mathbb{T}$ on $\mathbb{X}$ . Then $\mathbb{T}$ equals
to the set of all possible unions of elements of $\mathbb{B}$ .*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let set $\mathbb{U}$ be the set of all possible unions of
elements of $\mathbb{B}$ . For any $U \in \mathbb{U}$. $U = \cup B$ [^2]
for some $B \in \mathbb{B}$. Thus, for every $x \in U$, there exist a
$B' \in \mathbb{B}$ that $x \in B' \subseteq U$. Thus,
$U \in \mathbb{T}$.

Conversely, for any $U \in \mathbb{T}$. For any $x \in U$, let
$x \in B_{x} \in U$. Then, $U = \cup_{x \in U}B_{x}$. Thus,
$U \in \mathbb{U}$.

Therefore, $\mathbb{U}$ equals to $\mathbb{T}$ . ◻
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.2**. *[^3] Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a topological space. Suppose
that $\mathbb{C}$ is a collection of open sets of $\mathbb{X}$ such that
for each open set $U$ of $\mathbb{X}$ and each $x \in U$, there is an
element $C \in \mathbb{C}$ such that $x \in C \subseteq C$. Then
$\mathbb{C}$ is a basis for the topology of $\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.3**. *[^4] Let $\mathbb{B}$ and $\mathbb{B'}$ be basis for the
topologies $\mathbb{T}$ and $\mathbb{T'}$ , respectively, on
$\mathbb{X}$ . Then the following are equivalent:*

-   *$\mathbb{T'}$ is finer than $\mathbb{T}$*

-   *For each $x \in \mathbb{X}$ and each basis element
    $B \in \mathbb{B}$ containing X, there is a basis element
    $B' \in \mathbb{B'}$ such that $x \in B' \subseteq B$.*
:::

::: {#def:StandardTopologyOnTheRealLine .definition}
**Definition 1.11** (standard topology on the real line). *Let be
$\mathbb{B} = \{ B | B = \{ x | a < x < b \}, a < b, a \in \mathbb{R}, b \in \mathbb{R} \}$.
$\mathbb{B}$ formed a basis on real line. The topology generated by
$\mathbb{B}$ is called the ***standard topology on the real line*** [^5]
.*
:::

::: {#def:LowerLimitTopologyOnTheRealLine .definition}
**Definition 1.12** (lower limit topology on the real line). *Let be
$\mathbb{B} = \{ B | B = \{ x | a \le x < b \}, a < b, a \in \mathbb{R}, b \in \mathbb{R} \}$.
$\mathbb{B}$ formed a basis on real line. The topology generated by
$\mathbb{B}$ is called the ***lower limit topology on the real line***.
When $\mathbb{R}$ is given this topology,we denote it by
$\mathbb{R}_{l}$.*
:::

::: {#def:KTopologyOnTheRealLine .definition}
**Definition 1.13** (K-topology on the real line). *Let be
$\mathbb{B} = \{ B | B = \{ x | a < x < b \}, a < b, a \in \mathbb{R}, b \in \mathbb{R} \}$.
Let $K = \{ x | x = \frac{1}{n}, n \in \mathbb{Z_{+}} \}$.
$\mathbb{B} \cup \{ B - K | B \in \mathbb{B} \}$ formed a basis on real
line. The topology generated by $\mathbb{B}$ is called the ***K-topology
on the real line***. When $\mathbb{R}$ is given this topology,we denote
it by $\mathbb{R_{K}}$.*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.4**. *[^6] The topologies $\mathbb{R}_{l}$ and
$\mathbb{R_{K}}$ is strictly finer than the standard topology on
$\mathbb{R}$ .*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.5**. *The topologies of $\mathbb{R}_{l}$ and $\mathbb{R_{K}}$
is not comparable.*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let $\mathbb{T}_{l}$ and $\mathbb{T_{K}}$ be topologies of
$\mathbb{R}_{l}$ and $\mathbb{R_{K}}$ respectively. Let
$K = \{ x | x = \frac{1}{n}, n \in \mathbb{Z_{+}} \}$.

We first proof that $\mathbb{T}_{l}$ is not finer than $\mathbb{T_{K}}$
. Let $U = \{ x | -1 < x < 1 \} - K, x = 0$. If there exist
$B = \{ x | a \le x < b \} \in \mathbb{T}_{l}$ such that
$x \in B \subseteq U$, then $0 < b < 1$. Thus, there exist
$n \in \mathbb{Z_{+}}$ that $0 < \frac{1}{n} < b$. Thus $B$ is not a
subset of $U$.

Then we proof that $\mathbb{T_{K}}$ is not finer than $\mathbb{T}_{l}$.
Let $U' = \{ x | a' \le x < b' \}$. If there exist
$B' = \{ x | a'' < x < b'' \} or \{ x | a'' < x < b'' \} - K$ such that
${a'} \in B \subseteq U$. Thus $a'' < a < b''$. Thus there exist $c$
that $a'' < x < a, x \in B ,x \notin U'$. Thus $B' \nsubseteq U'$.

Thus the topologies of $\mathbb{R}_{l}$ and $\mathbb{R_{K}}$ is not
comparable. ◻
:::

::: {#def:Subbasis .definition}
**Definition 1.14** (subbasis). *A ***subbasis*** $\mathbb{S}$ for a
topology on $\mathbb{X}$ is a collection of subsets of $\mathbb{X}$
whose union equals $\mathbb{X}$ . The ***topology generated by the
subbasis*** $\mathbb{S}$ is defined to be the collection $\mathbb{T}$
[^7] of all unions of finite intersections of elements of $\mathbb{S}$
.*
:::

### Exercise

1.  Show that if $\mathbb{A}$ is a basis for a topology on $\mathbb{X}$
    , then the topology generated by $\mathbb{A}$ equals the
    intersection of all topologies on $\mathbb{X}$ that contain
    $\mathbb{A}$ . Prove the same if $\mathbb{A}$ is a subbasis.

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* As a subbasis is also a basis, we will directly prove the
    case of subbasis here.

    Let $\mathbb{S} = \{ \mathbb{T}_{\alpha} \}$ be set contain all the
    topologies that contain $\mathbb{A}$ . Let $\mathbb{T}$ be the
    topology that $\mathbb{A}$ generated. Let
    $\displaystyle \mathbb{T}' = \cap\mathbb{T}_{\alpha}$.[^8]

    First, $\mathbb{A} \subseteq \mathbb{T}_{\alpha}$. Thus,
    $\mathbb{T} \subseteq \mathbb{T}_{\alpha}$. Thus,
    $\mathbb{T} \subseteq \mathbb{T}'$.

    Also, $\mathbb{A} \subseteq \mathbb{T}$. Thus,
    $\mathbb{T} \in \mathbb{S}$. Thus,
    $\mathbb{T}' \subseteq \mathbb{T}$.

    Thus, $\mathbb{T} = \mathbb{T}'$ ◻
    :::

## The Order Topology

::: {#def:Interval .definition}
**Definition 1.15** (interval). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ is a set having a
simple order relation $<$. Given elements $a$ and $b$ of $\mathbb{X}$
such that $a < b$, there are four subsets of $\mathbb{X}$ that are
called ***intervals*** determined by $a$ and $b$:*

-   *$(a,b) = \{ x | a < x < b \}$*

-   *$(a,b] = \{ x | a < x \le b \}$*

-   *$[a,b) = \{ x | a \le x < b \}$*

-   *$[a,b] = \{ x | a \le x \le b \}$*

*$(a,b)$ is called an ***open interval*** on $\mathbb{X}$ . $[a,b]$ is
called an ***closed interval*** on $\mathbb{X}$ . $(a,b]$ and $[a,b)$ is
called ***half-open intervals***.*
:::

::: {#def:OrderTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.16** (order topology). *[^9] Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a set
with a simple order relation; assume $\mathbb{X}$ has more than one
element. Let $\mathbb{B}$ be the collection of all sets of the following
types:*

-   *All open intervals $(a,b)$ in $\mathbb{X}$ .*

-   *All intervals of the form $[a_{0},b)$, where $a_0$ is the smallest
    element(if exist) of $\mathbb{X}$ .*

-   *All intervals of the form $(a,b_{0}]$, where $b_0$ is the largest
    element(if exist) of $\mathbb{X}$ .*

*The collection $\mathbb{B}$ formed a basis for a topology on
$\mathbb{X}$ , which is called the order topology.*
:::

::: {#def:Ray .definition}
**Definition 1.17** (ray). *[^10][^11] If $\mathbb{X}$ is an ordered
set, and $a$ is an element of $\mathbb{X}$ , there are four subsets of
$\mathbb{X}$ that are called ***rays*** determined by $a$:*

-   *$(a,+\infty) = \{ x | x > a \}$*

-   *$(-\infty,a) = \{ x | x < a \}$*

-   *$[a,+\infty) = \{ x | x \ge a \}$*

-   *$(-\infty,a] = \{ x | x \le a \}$*

*$(a,+\infty)$ and $(-\infty,a)$ are called ***open rays***.
$[a,+\infty)$ and $(-\infty,a]$ are called ***closed rays***.*
:::

## The Product Topology

::: {#def:ProductTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.18** (product topology). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ and
$\mathbb{Y}$ be topological spaces. The ***product topology*** on
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ having a basis $\mathbb{B}$ containing
all sets of the form $U \times V$, where $U$ and $V$ is open sets of
$\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ respectively.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.1**. *[^12] If $\mathbb{B}$ and $\mathbb{C}$ is basis for
the topology of $\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ respectively, then the
collection
$$\mathbb{D} = \{ B \times C | B \in \mathbb{B} and C \in \mathbb{C} \}$$
is a basis for the topology of $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$*
:::

::: {#def:Projection .definition}
**Definition 1.19** (projection). *Let
$\pi_{1}: \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y} \rightarrow \mathbb{X}$ be
defined by the equation: $$\pi_{1}(x,y) = x$$*

*Let $\pi_{2}: \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ be
defined by the equation: $$\pi_{1}(x,y) = y$$*

*The maps $\pi_{1}$ and $\pi_{2}$ are called the ***projections*** of
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ onto its first and second factors,
respectively.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.2**. *[^13] The collection
$$\mathbb{S} = \{ \pi_{1}^{-1}(U) | U open in \mathbb{X} \} \cup \{ \pi_{2}^{-1}(V) | V open in \mathbb{Y} \}$$
is a subbasis for the product topology on
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$.*
:::

::: {#def:BoxTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.20** (box topology). *Let,
$$\mathbb{X} = \mathbb{X}_{1} \times \mathbb{X}_{2} \times \dots \times \mathbb{X}_{n} \text{or} \mathbb{X}_{1} \times \mathbb{X}_{2} \times \dots$$*

*In the first case, all the sets of the form
$U_{1} \times \dots \times U_{n}$ where $U_{i}$ is a open set of
$\mathbb{X}_{i}$ form a basis.*

*In the second case, all the sets of the form
$U_{1} \times U_{2} \times \dots$ where $U_{i}$ is a open set of
$\mathbb{X}_{i}$ also form a basis.*

*Topology defined in this way was called a ***box topology***.*
:::

::: {#def:ProjectionMapping .definition}
**Definition 1.21** (product topology). *[]{#def:ProductTopologyInfinite
label="def:ProductTopologyInfinite"}[^14] Let,
$$\mathbb{X} = \mathbb{X}_{1} \times \mathbb{X}_{2} \times \dots \times \mathbb{X}_{n} \text{or} \mathbb{X}_{1} \times \mathbb{X}_{2} \times \dots$$*

*Let $\pi_{i}$ be the projection function[^15] that
$$\pi_{i}: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{X}_{i}$$*

*And if $x \in \mathbb{X}$ $$\pi_{i}(x) = x_{i}$$*

*All the set of the form $\pi_{i}^{-1}(U_{i})$ where $i$ is arbitrary
and $U_{i}$ is an open set of $\mathbb{X}_{i}$ , form a subbasis of
$\mathbb{X}$ . The topology generated by this subbasis is called
***product topology***. And $\mathbb{X}$ is called a ***product
space***.*
:::

::: {#def:JTuple .definition}
**Definition 1.22** (J-tuple). *Let $J$ be an index set[^16]. Give a set
$\mathbb{X}$ , a ***J-tuple*** is defined as a function
$x: J \rightarrow \mathbb{X}$ . If $\alpha$ is an element of $J$ ,
$x(\alpha)$ is often denoted by $x_{\alpha}$ and is called the
$\alpha\text{th}$ ***coordinate*** of $x$ . And the function $x$ itself
is often denoted by the symbol $$(x_{\alpha})_{\alpha \in J}$$*

*The set of all J-tuples of elements of $\mathbb{X}$ is often denoted by
$\mathbb{X}^{J}$ .*
:::

::: {#def:CartesianProduct .definition}
**Definition 1.23** (cartesian product). *Let
$\{A_{\alpha}\}_{\alpha \in J}$ be an indexed family of sets; let
$\mathbb{X} = \bigcup_{\alpha \in J} A_{\alpha}$ . The ***cartesian
product*** of this indexed family is denoted by $$\displaystyle
            \prod_{\alpha \in J} A_{\alpha}$$*

*And is defined to be the set of all J-tuples
$(x_{\alpha})_{\alpha \in J}$ of elements of $\mathbb{X}$ such that
$x_{\alpha} \in A_{\alpha}$ for each $\alpha \in J$ . That is, it is the
set of all functions
$$x: J \rightarrow \bigcup_{\alpha \in J} A_{\alpha}$$ such that
$x(\alpha) \in A_{\alpha}$ for each $\alpha \in J$ .*
:::

::: {#theorem:ComparisonOfBoxProductTopology .theorem}
**Theorem 1.3** (Comparison of the box and product topologies). *[^17]
The box topology on $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ has a basis all sets of
the form $\prod U_{\alpha}$ where $U_{\alpha}$ is open in $X_{\alpha}$
for each $\alpha$ . The product topology on $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$
has a basis all sets of the form $\prod U_{\alpha}$ where $U_{\alpha}$
is open in $X_{\alpha}$ for each $\alpha$ and $U_{\alpha}$ equals
$\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ except for finitely many values of $\alpha$ .*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.4**. *[^18] Suppose the topology on each space
$\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ is given by a basis $\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ . The
collection of all sets of the form $$\prod_{\alpha \in J} B_{\alpha}$$
where $B_{\alpha} \in \mathbb{B}_{\alpha}$ form a basis for the box
topology on $\prod _{\alpha \in J} \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ .*

*The collection of all sets of the same form, where
$B_{\alpha} \in \mathbb{B}_{\alpha}$ for finitely many indices $\alpha$
and $B_{\alpha} = \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ for all the remaining indices,
will form a basis for the product topology
$\prod_{\alpha \in J}\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ .*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.5**. *[^19] Let $A_{\alpha}$ be a subspace of
$\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ , for each $\alpha \in J$ . Then
$\prod A_{\alpha}$ is a subspace of $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ if both
products are given the box topology, or if both products are given the
product topology.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.6**. *[^20] If each space $\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ is a
Hausdorff space, then $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ is a Hausdorff space
in both the box and product topologies.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.7**. *Let $\{
                  \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}      
            \}$ be an indexed family of spaces; let
$A_{\alpha} \subseteq \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ for each $\alpha$ . If
$\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ is given either the product or the box
topology, then
$$\prod \overline{A_{\alpha}} = \overline{\prod A_{\alpha}}$$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let $\pi_{\alpha}$ represent the projection mapping.

Let $x$ be an element of $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ . Let $V$ be an
open set in $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ that containing $x$ .

If $x \in \prod \overline{A_{\alpha}}$ , then $\pi_{\alpha}(V)$ is a
open set in $\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ that containing $x_{\alpha}$ . Thus
$\pi_{\alpha}(V)$ intersect with $A_{\alpha}$ . Thus $V$ intersect with
$\prod A_{\alpha}$ . Thus $x \in \overline{\prod A_{\alpha}}$ .

If $x \in \overline{\prod A_{\alpha}}$ . Let $U_{\alpha}$ be an open set
of $A_{\alpha}$ that contain $x_{\alpha}$ . Let $V = \prod U_{\beta}$
such that $U_{\beta} = \begin{cases}
                  \mathbb{X}_{\beta}, & \beta \neq \alpha \\
                  U_{\alpha}, & \beta = \alpha
            \end{cases}$ . It is obvious that $V$ is an open set that
contain $x$ . Thus $V$ intersect with $\prod A_{\alpha}$ . Thus
$U_{\alpha}$ intersect with $A_{\alpha}$ . Thus
$x \in \prod \overline{A_{\alpha}}$ . ◻
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.8**. *Let
$f: A \rightarrow \prod_{\alpha \in J} \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ be given by
the equation $$f(a) = (
                  f_{\alpha}(a)
            )_{\alpha \in J}$$ where
$f_{\alpha} : A \rightarrow \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ for each $\alpha$ . Let
$\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ have the product topology. Then the function
$f$ is continuous if and only if each function $f_{\alpha}$ is
continuous.*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let $\pi_{\alpha}$ be the projection mapping

It is obvious that
$$f^{-1}(U) = \bigcap_{\alpha \in J} f_{\alpha}^{-1}(\pi_{\alpha}(U))$$

If $f_{\alpha}$ is continuous. Let $V$ be a closed set of
$\prod_{\alpha \in J} \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ . Then $\pi_{\alpha}(V)$ is
closed. Then $f^{-1}(V)$ is intersect of closed set. Thus
$\pi_{\alpha}(V)$ is closed. So $f$ is continuous.

If $f$ is continuous. Let $U_{\alpha}$ be an open set of
$\mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ . Let $U_{\beta} = \mathbb{X}_{\beta}$ if
$\beta \neq \alpha$ . Let $V = \prod_{\beta \in J} U_{\beta}$ . It is
obvious that $V$ is an open set of $\prod \mathbb{X}_{\alpha}$ . And
$$
\begin{aligned}
            f^{-1}{V} &=& \bigcap_{\alpha \in J} f_{\alpha}^{-1}(\pi_{\alpha}(U)) \\
            &=& f_{\alpha}^{-1}(U_{\alpha})
      
\end{aligned}
$$
which is an open set in $A$ . Thus $f_{\alpha}$ is
continuous. ◻
:::

## The Subspace Topology

::: {#def:SubspaceTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.24** (subspace topology). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a
topological space with topology $\mathbb{T}$ . If $Y$ is a subset of
$\mathbb{X}$ , the collection
$\mathbb{T}_{Y} = \{ Y \cap U | U \in \mathbb{T} \}$ is a topology on
$Y$ , called the ***subspace topology***.*

*$Y$ is also called a ***subspace*** of $\mathbb{X}$*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.6**. *[^21] If $\mathbb{B}$ is basis for the topology of
$\mathbb{X}$ , $Y$ is a subset of $\mathbb{X}$ then the collection
$$\mathbb{B}_{Y} = \{ B \cap Y | B \in \mathbb{B} \}$$ is a basis for
the subspace topology on $Y$*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.7**. *[^22] Let $Y$ be a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ . If $U$ is
open in $Y$ and $Y$ is open in $\mathbb{X}$ , then $U$ is open in
$\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.9**. *[^23] If $A$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ and $B$ is
a subspace of $\mathbb{Y}$ , then the product topology on $A \times B$
is the same as the topology $A \times B$ inherits as a subspace of
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let $\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}$ and $\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}$ and
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{XY}}$ be basis of topology of $\mathbb{X}$ and
$\mathbb{Y}$ and $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ respectively. Let
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}'$ and $\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}'$ and
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{XY}}'$ be basis of topology of $A$ and $A$ and
$A \times B$ respectively. We will show that
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}' \times \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}' = \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{XY}}'$.
Thus, the product topology on $A \times B$ is the same as the topology
$A \times B$ inherits as a subspace of $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ .

First, every element in
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}' \times \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}'$ can be
represented by
$B_{A} \cap A \times B_{B} \cap B = B_{A} \times B_{B} \cap A \times B \in \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{XY}}'$
where
$B_{A} \in \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}', B_{B} \in \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}'$.
Thus
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}' \times \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}' \subseteq \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{XY}}'$.

Next, we show that
$\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}' \times \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}'$ generate the
topology $A \times B$ inherits as a subspace of
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ . For any open set $U$ in
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ , and
$\forall x \in U \cap A \times B, \exists B_{\mathbb{X}} \times B_{\mathbb{Y}} \in \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{XY}}, x \in B_{\mathbb{X}} \times B_{\mathbb{Y}} \subseteq \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$.
Thus
$x \in B_{\mathbb{X}} \times B_{\mathbb{Y}} \cap A \times B \subseteq A \times B, B_{\mathbb{X}} \times B_{\mathbb{Y}} \cap A \times B \in \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}' \times \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}'$.
Thus $\mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{X}}' \times \mathbb{B}_{\mathbb{Y}}'$ generate
the topology $A \times B$ inherits as a subspace of
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ .gi ◻
:::

::: {#def:OrderedSquare .definition}
**Definition 1.25** (ordered square). *Let $I = [0,1]$. The set
$I \times I$ in the dictionary order [^24] topology will be called
***ordered square***, and denoted by $I_{o}^{2}$*
:::

::: {#def:Convex .definition}
**Definition 1.26** (convex). *Given an ordered set $\mathbb{X}$ , let
us say that a subset $\mathbb{Y}$ of $\mathbb{X}$ is ***convex*** in
$\mathbb{X}$ if for each pair of points $a < b$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ , the
entire interval $(a,b)$ of points of $\mathbb{X}$ lies in $\mathbb{Y}$*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.10**. *[^25] Let $\mathbb{X}$ be an ordered set in the order
topology. Let $\mathbb{Y}$ be a subset of $\mathbb{X}$ that is convex in
$\mathbb{X}$ . Then the order topology on $\mathbb{Y}$ is the same as
the topology $\mathbb{Y}$ inherits as a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Consider the ray $(a,+\infty)$ in $\mathbb{X}$ . If
$a \in \mathbb{Y}$, then $$(a,+\infty) \cap \mathbb{Y} = \{
                  x | x \in \mathbb{Y} and x > a      
            \}$$

This is an open ray of the ordered set of $\mathbb{Y}$ . if
$a \notin Y$, then $a$ is either a lower bound on $\mathbb{Y}$ or an
upper bound on $\mathbb{Y}$ , since $\mathbb{Y}$ is convex. In the
former case, the set $(a,+\infty) \cap \mathbb{Y}$ equals all of
$\mathbb{Y}$ , in the latter case, it is empty.

A similar remark shows that the intersection of the rat $(-\infty,a)$
with $\mathbb{Y}$ is either an open ray of $\mathbb{Y}$ , or
$\mathbb{Y}$ itself, or empty. Since the sets
$(a,+\infty) \cal \mathbb{Y}$ and $(-\infty,a) \cap \mathbb{Y}$ form a
subbasis for the subspace topology on $\mathbb{Y}$ , and since each is
open in the order topology, the order topology contains the subspace
topology.

To prove the reverse, note that any open ray of $\mathbb{Y}$ equals the
intersection of an open ray of $\mathbb{X}$ with $\mathbb{Y}$ , so it is
open in the subspace topology on $\mathbb{Y}$ . Since the open rays of
$\mathbb{Y}$ are a subbasis for the order topology on $\mathbb{Y}$ ,
this topology is contained in the subspace topology. ◻
:::

#### Exercise

1.  A map $\mathit{f} : \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ is said to be
    a ***open map***[]{#def:OpenMap label="def:OpenMap"} if for every
    open set $U \subseteq \mathbb{X}$, the set $\mathit{f}(U)$ is open
    in $\mathbb{Y}$ . Show that
    $\pi : \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y} \rightarrow \mathbb{X}$ is open
    map.

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* An open set in $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ can be
    represented by $$\cup( U_{i} \times U_{i}' )$$ where $U_{i}, U_{i}'$
    are open sets in $\mathbb{X}$ , $\mathbb{Y}$ , respectively.

    Also,
    $$\cup( U_{i} \times U_{i}' ) = \cup( U_{i} ) \times \cup( U_{i}' )$$

    Thus, $$\pi(\cup( U_{i} \times U_{i}' )) = \cup( U_{i} )$$

    Thus, $\pi(U)$ is open in $\mathbb{X}$ . ◻
    :::

2.  Let $\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{X'}$ denote a single set in the
    topologies $\mathbb{T}$ and $\mathbb{T'}$ , respectively; let
    $\mathbb{Y}$ and $\mathbb{Y'}$ denote a single set in the topologies
    $\mathbb{U}$ and $\mathbb{U'}$ , respectively. [^26] Assume these
    sets are nonempty.

    1.  Show that if $\mathbb{T}' \supseteq \mathbb{T}$ and
        $\mathbb{U}' \supseteq \mathbb{U}$ , then the product topologies
        $\mathbb{X'} \times \mathbb{Y'}$ is finer than the product
        topology on $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ .

    2.  Does the converse of the previous statement hold?

3.  Show that the countable collection[^27] $$\{ 
                      (a,b) \times (c,d) | a < b, c < d, a \in \mathbb{Q}, b \in \mathbb{Q}, c \in \mathbb{Q}, d \in \mathbb{Q}
                \}$$ is a basis for $\mathbb{R}^{2}$

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* This is obvious if you prove that $(a,b) \times (c,d)$ is a
    rectangle in the $\mathbb{R}^{2}$ plane. ◻
    :::

4.  Let $\mathbb{X}$ be an ordered set. If $\mathbb{Y}$ is a proper
    subset of $\mathbb{X}$ that is convex in $\mathbb{X}$ prove that
    $\mathbb{Y}$ may not be an interval or a ray in $\mathbb{X}$ .

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* Let $\mathbb{X} = \mathbb{R}^{2}$ with dictionary order.
    Then $Y = \{
                            (x,y) | -1 \le x \le 1 
                      \}$ is convex in $\mathbb{X}$ , however it is not
    an interval or a ray. ◻
    :::

    There is a false prove given by myself.

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* Let $\mathbb{S}$ be a set that contain all intervals and
    rays of $\mathbb{Y}$ . We define a partial order on $\mathbb{S}$ by
    inclusion. So if there is a chain in $\mathbb{S}$ :
    $$S_{1} \subseteq S_{2} \subseteq S_{3} \dots$$

    Let $$S = S_{1} \cup S_{2} \cup S_{3} \cup \dots$$

    Thus, $S$ is an upper bound of the chain.

    Thus, by Zorn's Lemma, there is a maximal element of $\mathbb{S}$ ,
    say $U$ , then we prove that $U = \mathbb{Y}$ .

    If $U \neq \mathbb{Y}$ , then $\exists x, x \in \mathbb{Y} - U$ .

    If $U$ is a ray say $(a,+\infty)$ . Then $x < a$ , thus
    $U \subseteq (x,+\infty) \subseteq \mathbb{B}$ , then there is
    contradiction with the maximal element.

    If $U$ is an interval, the circumstance is similar with the proof of
    $U$ is a ray.

    Thus $\mathbb{Y}$ is a ray or an interval. ◻
    :::

    However, there is issue with this proof, the set $S$ does exists.
    However, it may not be an interval or ray, so it may not be
    contained in $\mathbb{S}$

## Closed Sets and Limit Points

::: {#def:Closed .definition}
**Definition 1.27** (closed). *[^28] A subset $A$ of a topological space
is said to be closed if the set $\mathbb{X}-A$ is open.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.11**. *[^29] Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a topological space. Then
the following conditions hold*

1.  *$\emptyset$ and $\mathbb{X}$ are closed.*

2.  *Arbitrary intersections of closed sets are closed*

3.  *Finite unions of closed sets are closed*
:::

::: {#def:ClosedIn .definition}
**Definition 1.28** (closed in). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a topological
space; let $\mathbb{Y}$ be a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ . We say that a
set $A$ is ***closed in*** $\mathbb{Y}$ if $A$ is a subset of
$\mathbb{Y}$ and $A$ is closed in the subspace topology of $\mathbb{Y}$*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.12**. *Let $\mathbb{Y}$ be a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ . Then
a set $A$ is closed in $\mathbb{Y}$ if and only if it equals the
intersection of a closed set of $\mathbb{X}$ with $\mathbb{Y}$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* First we proof that if $A$ is closed in $\mathbb{Y}$ , then
$\exists B \subseteq \mathbb{X}, B \cap \mathbb{Y} = A$ . As the origin
topology form a surjective map to its subspace topology, there exists a
$B$ closed in $\mathbb{X}$ that
$\mathbb{Y} - A = ( \mathbb{X} - B ) \cap \mathbb{Y}$ . Then
$B \cap \mathbb{Y} = A$

Conversely, if $\exists B \subseteq \mathbb{X}, B \cap \mathbb{Y} = A$ .
Then, $\mathbb{Y} - A = ( \mathbb{X} - B ) \cap \mathbb{Y}$ . Then
$\mathbb{X}-B$ is open in $\mathbb{Y}$ , $\mathbb{Y}-A$ is open in
$\mathbb{Y}$ . Then $A$ is closed in $\mathbb{Y}$ ◻
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.13**. *[^30] Let $\mathbb{Y}$ be a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$
. If $A$ is closed in $\mathbb{Y}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ is closed in
$\mathbb{X}$ , then $A$ is closed in $\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: {#def:Interior .definition}
**Definition 1.29** (interior). *Given a subset $A$ of a topological
space $\mathbb{X}$ , the ***interior*** of $A$ is defined as the union
of all open sets contained in $A$ . Denoted by $Int(A)$.*
:::

::: {#def:Closure .definition}
**Definition 1.30** (closure). *Given a subset $A$ of a topological
space $\mathbb{X}$ , the ***closure*** of $A$ is defined as the
intersection of all closed sets containing $A$ . Denoted by $Cl(A)$ or
$\overline{A}$*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.14**. *[^31][^32] Let $\mathbb{Y}$ be a subspace of a
topological space $\mathbb{X}$ ; let $A$ be a subset of $\mathbb{X}$ .
Let $\overline{A}$ denote the closure of $A$ in $\mathbb{X}$ . Then the
closure of $A$ in $\mathbb{Y}$ equals $\overline{A} \cap \mathbb{Y}$*
:::

::: {#def:Intersect .definition}
**Definition 1.31** (intersect). *We say that a set $A$ ***intersects***
$B$ if $A \cap B$ is not empty.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.15**. *Let $A$ be a subset of the topological space
$\mathbb{X}$*

1.  *The $x \in \overline{A}$ if and only if every open set $U$
    containing $x$ intersect $A$ .*

2.  *Supposing the topology of $\mathbb{X}$ is given by a basis, then
    $x \in \overline{A}$ if and only if every basis element $B$
    containing $x$ intersects $A$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* There are only two types of closed set $U$ in $\mathbb{X}$ :

1.  $U \supseteq \overline{A}$

2.  $U \cap A \neq A$

Thus, there are only two types of open set $U$ in $\mathbb{X}$
respectively.

1.  $U$ does not intersects $A$ .

2.  $U \cap \overline{A} \neq \emptyset$

1.  If $x \in \overline{A}$ , then every open set containing $x$ is the
    open set of second type, thus every open set containing $x$
    intersects $A$

    If every open set containing $x$ intersect $\mathbb{A}$ , suppose
    $x \notin \overline{A}$ . Then $\mathbb{X} - \overline{A}$ is a open
    set containing x, however, it does not intersects $A$ . Thus,
    $x \in \overline{A}$ .

2.  If $x \in \overline{A}$ , as every basis element of $\mathbb{X}$ is
    a open set, thus every basis element containing $x$ intersects
    $\mathbb{A}$

    If every open set containing $x$ intersect $\mathbb{A}$ , suppose
    $x \notin \overline{A}$ .

    As every open sets can be represented by union of basis. Let
    $$\mathbb{X} - \overline{A} = B_{1} \cup B_{2} \cup B_{3} \cup \dots \cup B_{1}' \cup B_{2}' \cup B_{3}' \cup \dots$$
    where $B$ are bases containing $x$ , and $B'$ are bases that does
    not contain $x$ .

    Thus,
    $$x \in B_{1} \cup B_{2} \cup B_{3} \cup \dots \subseteq \mathbb{X} - \overline{A}$$

    Then $B_{1} \cup B_{2} \cup B_{3} \cup \dots$ that is a open set can
    be generated by all the bases containing $x$ , however, that does
    not intersects $A$ . So, $x \in \overline{A}$ .

 ◻
:::

::: {#def:Neighbourhood .definition}
**Definition 1.32** (neighbourhood). *[^33] If we say $U$ is a
neighbourhood of $x$ in $\mathbb{X}$ , then $U$ is an open set in
$\mathbb{X}$ containing $x$*
:::

::: {#def:LimitPoint .definition}
**Definition 1.33** (limit point, point of accumulation, cluster point).
*[^34] If $A$ is a subset of topological space $\mathbb{X}$ .We say that
$x$ is a limit point of $A$ if and only if every open sets containing
$x$ intersects A with some points other than $x$ .*

*This condition is also equivalent to the condition that if $x$ is a
limit point of $A$ if and only if $x \in \overline{A-\{x\}}$*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.16**. *[^35] Let $A$ be a subset of topological space
$\mathbb{X}$ ; let $A'$ be the set of all limit points of $A$ . Then
$$\overline{A} = A \cup A'$$*
:::

::: corollary
**Corollary 1.1**. *[^36] A subset of a topological space is closed if
and only if it contains all its limit point.*
:::

::: {#def:Converge .definition}
**Definition 1.34** (converge). *[^37] We say that a sequence of
$x_{1}, x_{2}, x_{3} \dots$ ***converge*** to $x$ . When for every
neighbourhood $U$ of $x$ , there exists a positive integer $N$ , such
that for all $n > N$ , $x_{n} \in U$ .*
:::

::: {#def:HausdorffSpace .definition}
**Definition 1.35** (Hausdorff space). *A topological space is called a
***Hausdorff space***, if for every distinct $x_{1}$ , $x_{2}$ in
$\mathbb{X}$ , there exists disjoint neighbourhood of $U_{1}$ , $U_{2}$
of $x_{1}$ , $x_{2}$ in $\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.17**. *[^38][^39] Every finite point set in a Hausdorff
space $\mathbb{X}$ is closed.*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let $A$ be a finite point set in a Hausdorff space $\mathbb{X}$
.

Suppose $A$ only have one element. Then for every $x\in\mathbb{X}-A$ ,
there exists a neighbourhood of $x$ that does not intersect with $A$ .
So $A$ is closed.

Suppose $A$ is a closed finite point set. We take $x_{0}\in\mathbb{X}-A$
. As finite union of closed set is closed, $A\cup\{x_{0}\}$ is closed.

Then, from induction, all finite point set in a Hausdorff space is
closed. ◻
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.18**. *If $\mathbb{X}$ is a Hausdorff space, then a sequence
of points in $\mathbb{X}$ converges to at most one point.*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Suppose that the following sequence
$$x_{1}, x_{2}, x_{3}\dots$$

Converge to more than one points say $$y_{1}, y_{2}, y_{3}\dots$$

Then there exists $$n_{1}, n_{2}, n_{3}\dots, U_{1}, U_{2}, U_{3}\dots$$

Such that for $n > n_{i}$ $$x_{n} \in U_{i}, y_{i} \in U_{i}$$

If we take disjoint $U_{1}, U_{2}$ which is possible as this is a
Hausdorff space.

Then the previews condition does not stand. So, every sequence of points
in a Hausdorff space can only converge to at most one point. ◻
:::

::: {#def:Limit .definition}
**Definition 1.36** (limit). *If a sequence $x_{n}$ of points in
Hausdorff space converge to the point $x$ , we denote this by
$x_{n} \rightarrow x$ and we say the ***limit*** of $x_{n}$ is $x$ .*
:::

::: {#def:T1Axiom .definition}
**Definition 1.37** ( $T_{1}$ axiom). *The condition that all finite
point set of a topological space is closed is called ***$T_{1}$
axiom***.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.19**. *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a space satisfying the $T_{1}$
axiom; let $A$ be a subset of $\mathbb{X}$ . Then the point $x$ is a
limit point of $A$ if and only if every neighbourhood of $x$ contains
infinitely many points of $A$ .*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* If every neighbourhood of $x$ contains infinitely many point of
$A$ . Than every neighbourhood of $x$ intersect with $A$ with infinite
element other than $x$ , then $x$ is a limit point of $A$ .

If $x$ is a limit point of $A$ . Suppose that there exists a open set
$U$ containing $x$ and intersect with $A$ for finite many points. Let
$$U' = U \cap ( A - x )$$

Then, $x \notin U'$ . Let $$U'' = U - U'$$

Then $U''$ is open as $U'$ is a finite point set and
$$U'' = U - U' = U \cap (\mathbb{X} - U')$$

Also, $x \in U''$ . Thus, $U''$ is a open set containing $x$ that only
intersect $A$ with $x$ or do not intersect $A$ . This is a contradiction
of x is a limit point. Thus there does not exists a open set $U$
containing $x$ and intersect with $A$ for finite many points. ◻
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.20**. *[^40] Every simply ordered set is a Hausdorff space
in order topology.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.21**. *[^41] The product of two Hausdorff space is a
Hausdorff space.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.22**. *[^42] A subspace of a Hausdorff space is a Hausdorff
space.*
:::

### Exercise

1.  Give an counter example why
    $\overline{\cup A_{\alpha}} = \cup \overline{A_{\alpha}}$ dose not
    hold.

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* Consider the X be the K-topology on the real line.

    Let
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      A_{n} &=& (\frac{1}{n+1},\frac{1}{n}), n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+} \\
                      A &=& \cup A_{n}
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    Then
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      \overline{A_{n}} &=& [\frac{1}{n+1},\frac{1}{n}] \\
                      \cup \overline{A_{n}} &=& (0,1]
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    However, as every neighbourhood of $0$ intersect $\cup A_{\alpha}$ .
    $0 \in \overline{\cup A_{\alpha}}$ .

    Thus, $\overline{\cup A_{\alpha}} \neq \cup \overline{A_{\alpha}}$ ◻
    :::

2.  Prove that $$\overline{A-B} \supseteq \overline{A} - \overline{B}$$

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* If $x \in \overline{A} - \overline{B}$ . Then
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      x \in \overline{A}, x \notin \overline{B}
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$
    .

    Thus for open set $U$ containing $x$
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      &\exists& U_{1} \cap B = \emptyset \\
                      &\forall& U \cap A \neq \emptyset
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    Suppose that $x \notin \overline{A-B}$ . Then\
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      \exists U_{0} \cap (A-B) = \emptyset
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    Thus,
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      U_{0} \cap A \subseteq B
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    Thus,
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      U_{1} \cap B &=& \emptyset \\
                      U_{1} \cap U_{0} \cap A &=& \emptyset
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    As $U_{1} \cap U_{0}$ is an open set containing $x$ , so there is
    contradiction with $x \in \overline{A}$ . Thus
    $x \in \overline{A-B}$ . ◻
    :::

3.  A ***diagonal***[]{#def:Diagonal label="def:Diagonal"} is a subset
    $\Delta = \{ x \times x | x \in \mathbb{X} \}$ of the product
    topology $\mathbb{X \times X}$ where $\mathbb{X}$ is a topological
    space. Show that the diagonal is closed in $\mathbb{X \times X}$ if
    and only if $\mathbb{X}$ is a Hausdorff space.

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* If $\mathbb{X}$ is a Hausdorff space. For every element
    $x \times y$ of $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{X}$ that not in $\Delta$
    . We take disjoint set $U_{x},U_{y}$ where
    $x \in U_{x}, y \in U_{y}$ . Then
    $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{X} - \Delta = \cup_{x \neq y} U_{x} \times U_{y}$
    . Where $\cup_{x \neq y} U_{x} \times U_{y}$ is an open set. Thus
    $\Delta$ is a closed set.

    Conversely, if $\Delta$ is a closed set, suppose that $\mathbb{X}$
    is not a Hausdorff space. Then there exists distinct $x, y$ such
    that every neighbourhood of $x$ and $y$ intersect. Let $\mathbb{B}$
    be a basis of topology of $\mathbb{X}$ . Then
    $x \times y \in \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{X} - \Delta$ . However we
    cannot find
    $B_{1}, B_{2} \in \mathbb{B}, x \times y \in B_{1} \times B_{2} \subset \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{X} - \Delta$
    . Then $\Delta$ is not a closed set. So there is a contradiction,
    then $\mathbb{X}$ must be a Hausdorff space. ◻
    :::

4.  Prove that $T_{1}$ axiom is equivalent to the condition such that
    for every distinct pair $x,y$ of $\mathbb{X}$ , there exists
    neighbourhood of $x$ does not contain $y$ .

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* First if $T_{1}$ axiom hold, then for every pair $x,y$ ,
    the neighbourhood $\mathbb{X}-\{y\}$ of $x$ does not contain $y$ ,
    so the second condition hold.

    Conversely, if the second condition hold. Suppose that we can find a
    finite points set say $\{x_{1}, x_{2}, x_{3} \dots$ }, then there
    must exists $x \in \{x_{1}, x_{2}, x_{3} \dots$ } such that the set
    $\{x\}$ is not closed. Then
    $\overline{\{x\}} - \{x\} \neq \emptyset$ . Let
    $y \in \overline{\{x\}} - \{x\}$ , then every neighbourhood of y
    must contain $x$ , this is a contradiction to the second condition,
    so the $T_{1}$ axiom must hold. ◻
    :::

5.  If $A \subseteq \mathbb{X}$ , we define the
    ***boundary***[]{#def:Boundary label="def:Boundary"} of $A$ by the
    equation $$\text{Bd} A = \overline{A} \cap \overline{\mathbb{X}-A}$$

    1.  Show that $\text{Int}A$ and $\text{Bd} A$ are disjoint and
        $\overline{A} = \text{Int} A \cup \text{Bd} A$ .

        ::: proof
        *Proof.* For every $x \in \text{Bd}A$ , every open set contain
        $x$ must intersect $A$ and $\mathbb{X}-A$ so, there is no open
        set $U$ contain $x$ , $U \subseteq A$ .

        For every $x' \in \text{Int}A$ , there exists $U' \subseteq A$ ,
        so $\text{Bd}A$ and $\text{Int}A$ are disjoint sets.

        For every $x \in \overline{A}$ , $x \in \text{Bd}A$ or
        $x \notin \text{Bd}A$ . We discuss the condition that
        $x \notin \text{Bd}A$ .

        Then $x \notin \overline{\mathbb{X}-A}$ , then there exists a
        open set $U$ containing $x$ , that does not intersect with
        $\mathbb{X}-A$ . Thus $U \subseteq A$ , thus $x \in \text{Int}A$
        . So $\overline{A} \subseteq \text{Int} A \cup \text{Bd} A$ .

        Then, $\text{Bd}A \subseteq \overline{A}$ ,
        $\text{Int}A \subseteq A \subseteq \overline{A}$ . Thus,
        $\overline{A} \supseteq \text{Int} A \cup \text{Bd} A$

        So, $\overline{A} = \text{Int} A \cup \text{Bd} A$ ◻
        :::

    2.  Show that $\text{Bd}A = \emptyset$ if and only if $A$ is both
        open and closed.

        ::: proof
        *Proof.* So, $\text{Int}A = \overline{A}$ , then
        $\text{Bd}A = \emptyset$ follows directly from
        $\overline{A} = \text{Int} A \cup \text{Bd} A$ . ◻
        :::

    3.  Show that $U$ is open if and only if
        $\text{Bd}U = \overline{U}-U$ .

        ::: proof
        *Proof.* Suppose U is open. Then
        $\overline{\mathbb{X}-U} = \mathbb{X} - U$ . Then for every
        $x \in U$ ,
        $x \notin \mathbb{X} - U, x \notin \overline{\mathbb{X}-U}$ .
        Thus $\overline{U} \cap \overline{\mathbb{X}-U}=\overline{U}-U$
        .

        Conversely, suppose $\text{Bd}U = \overline{U}-U$ . Then for
        every $x \in U$ , $x \notin \text{Bd}U$ . Then as
        $\overline{U} = \text{Int}U\cup \text{Bd}U$ ,
        $x \in \text{Int}U$ . So $\text{Int}U \supseteq U$ . Thus
        $U = \text{Int}U$ . Thus, $U$ is open. ◻
        :::

## Continuous Function

::: {#def:ContinuousRelativeTo .definition}
**Definition 1.38** (continuous). *[]{#def:Continuous
label="def:Continuous"}[^43] Let $\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ be
topological spaces. A function $f: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ is
said to be ***continuous*** if for each open subset $V$ of $\mathbb{Y}$
, the set $f^{-1}(V)$ is an open subset of $\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.23**. *Let $\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ be topological
spaces; let $f: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow\mathbb{Y}$ . Then the following
are equivalent.*

1.  *$f$ is continuous.*

2.  *For every subset $A$ of $X$ , one has
    $f(\overline{A})\subseteq\overline{f(A)}$ .*

3.  *For every closed set $B$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ , the set $f^{-1}(B)$ is
    closed in $\mathbb{X}$ .*

4.  *For each $x\in\mathbb{X}$ and each neighbourhood of $V$ of $f(x)$ ,
    there is a neighbourhood $U$ of $x$ such that $f(U) \subseteq V$ .*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* 1 $\Rightarrow$ 3:

Let $A$ be a open set in $\mathbb{Y}$ .
$f^{-1}(\mathbb{Y}-A) = \mathbb{X} - f^{-1}(A)$ .

3 $\Rightarrow$ 1:

Let $A$ be a closed set in $\mathbb{Y}$ .
$f^{-1}(\mathbb{Y}-A) = \mathbb{X} - f^{-1}(A)$ .

1 $\Rightarrow$ 2:

For $x \in \overline{A}$ , we take a open set
$f(x) \in U \subseteq \mathbb{Y}$ . Thus
$x \in f^{-1}(U) \cap A \neq \emptyset$ . Thus
$U \cap f(A) \neq \emptyset$ . So $f(x) \in \overline{f(A)}$ . Thus
$f(\overline{A})\subseteq\overline{f(A)}$ .

2 $\Rightarrow$ 3:

Suppose $f$ is not continuous. Then there must exists $V$ , such that
$f^{-1}(V) = U$ is not closed. Thus $\overline{U} \supset B = f^{-1}(A)$
. Thus $f{\overline{B}} \supset A$ . However
$f(\overline{B}) \subseteq \overline{f(B)} = A$ . There is a
contradiction. So $f$ must be continuous.

1 $\Rightarrow$ 4:

For every neighbourhood $V$ of $f(x)$ , $f^{-1}(V)$ is a neighbourhood
of $x$ that $f(f^{-1}(V)) \subseteq V$ .

4 $\Rightarrow$ 1:

We take a open set $V$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ . Let $S$ be the collection of
all open set $U$ in $\mathbb{X}$ such that $f(U) \subseteq V$ . The set
cannot be empty unless $f^{-1}(V) = \emptyset$ . Let $U_{0}$ denote the
union of all the element in $S$ . We prove that $U_{0} = f^{-1}(V)$ .

For all element $x \in U_{0}$ , $f(x) \in V$ . Thus
$U_{0} \subseteq f^{-1}(V)$ .

For all element $x \in f^{-1}(V)$ . There is a $U'$ such that
$x \in U', f(U')\subseteq V$ . This follows from the condition 4. Thus
$U' \in S$ . Thus $x \in U_{0}$ . Thus $U_{0} \subseteq f^{-1}(V)$ . As
$U_{0}$ is union of open set, $U_{0}$ is also open. Thus, $f^{-1}(V)$ is
also open.

Thus $f$ is continuous. ◻
:::

::: {#def:Homeomorphism .definition}
**Definition 1.39** (homeomorphism). *[^44] Let $\mathbb{X}$ and
$\mathbb{Y}$ be topological space; let
$f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ be a bijection. If both the
function $f$ and the inverse function
$$f^{-1}: \mathbb{Y} \rightarrow \mathbb{X}$$ are continuous, then f is
called a ***homeomorphism****
:::

::: {#def:TopologicalImbedding .definition}
**Definition 1.40** (topological imbedding). *Suppose that
$f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ is an injective continuous map,
where $\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ are topological spaces. Let
$\mathbb{Z}$ be the image set $f(\mathbb{X})$ , considered as a subspace
of $\mathbb{Y}$ ; then the function
$f': \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Z}$ obtained by restricting the
range of $f$ is bijective. If $f'$ happens to be a homeomorphism of
$\mathbb{X}$ with $\mathbb{Z}$ , we say that the map
$f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ is a ***topological imbedding***,
or simply an ***imbedding***, of $\mathbb{X}$ in $\mathbb{Y}$ .*
:::

::: {#theorem:RulesForConstructingContinuousFunctions .theorem}
**Theorem 1.24** (Rules for constructing continuous functions). *Let
$\mathbb{X}$ , $\mathbb{Y}$ , and $\mathbb{Z}$ be topological spaces.*

1.  *(Constant function) If $f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ maps
    all of $\mathbb{X}$ into the single point $y_{0}$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ ,
    then $f$ is continuous.*

2.  *(Inclusion) If $A$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ , the inclusion
    function $j: A \rightarrow \mathbb{X}$ is continuous.*

3.  *(Composites) If $f: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ and
    $g:\mathbb{Y}\rightarrow\mathbb{Z}$ are continuous, then the map
    $g \circ f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Z}$ is continuous.*

4.  *(Restricting the domain) If $f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$
    is continuous, and if $A$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{X}$ , then the
    restriction function $f|A : A \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ is
    continuous.*

5.  *(Restricting or expanding the range) Let
    $f:\mathbb{X}\rightarrow\mathbb{Y}$ is continuous. Let $\mathbb{Z}$
    be a subspace of $\mathbb{Y}$ containing the image $f(\mathbb{X})$ ,
    the function $h: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow \mathbb{Z}$ obtained by
    restricting the range of $f$ is continuous. If $\mathbb{Z}$ is a
    space having $\mathbb{Y}$ as a subspace, then the function
    $h: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow\mathbb{Y}$ obtained by expanding the range
    of $f$ is continuous.*

6.  *(Local formulation of continuity) The map
    $f: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow\mathbb{Y}$ is continuous if $\mathbb{X}$
    can be written as the union of open sets $U_{\alpha}$ such set
    $f|U_{\alpha}$ is continuous for each $\alpha$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.*

1.  $f^{-1}(U)$ of any open set $U$ is $\mathbb{X}$ , thus $f$ is
    continuous.

2.  For every open subset $U$ of $\mathbb{X}$ , $j^{-1}(U) = U\cap A$ is
    continuous in $A$ . Thus $j$ is a continuous function.

3.  For every open subset $U$ of $\mathbb{Z}$ , $f^{-1}(U)$ is open in
    $\mathbb{Y}$ , and $g^{-1}(f^{-1}(U))$ is open in $\mathbb{X}$ .
    Thus, $g \circ f$ is continuous

4.  For every open subset $U$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ , $f^{-1}(U)$ is open in
    $\mathbb{X}$ , thus $f^{-1}(U)\cap A$ is open in $A$ . Thus the
    function $f|A$ is continuous.

5.  If $\mathbb{Z}$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{Y}$ , then every open
    subset of $\mathbb{Z}$ can be represented as $U\cap\mathbb{Z}$ ,
    where $U$ is a open subset of $\mathbb{Y}$ . Thus
    $h^{-1}(U\cap\mathbb{Z})=g^{-1}(\mathbb{Z})\cap g^{-1}(U) = \mathbb{X}\cap g^{-1}(U)$
    which is a open subset of $X$ , thus $h$ is continuous.

    If $\mathbb{Y}$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{Z}$ . Then we take a open
    subset $U$ of $\mathbb{Z}$ . $h^{-1}(U) = g^(-1)(U\cap \mathbb{Y})$
    which is open in $\mathbb{X}$ , thus $h$ is continuous.

6.  if $f|U_{\alpha}$ is continuous for each $\alpha$ . For every open
    subset $U$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ .
    $$U = \cup_{\alpha} (U_{\alpha}\cap U)$$ where $U_{\alpha}\cap U$ is
    open both in $U_{\alpha}$ and in $\mathbb{Y}$ .

    Thus,
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      f^{-1}(U) &=& f^{-1}(\cup_{\alpha} (U_{\alpha}\cap U)) \\
                      &=& \cup_{\alpha} ((f|U_{\alpha})^{-1}(U_{\alpha}\cap U))
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$
    and each $(f|U_{\alpha})^{-1}(U_{\alpha}\cap U)$ is
    open, thus $f^{-1}(U)$ is open.

 ◻
:::

::: {#theorem:ThePastingLemma .theorem}
**Theorem 1.25** (The pasting lemma). *[^45] Let $\mathbb{X} = A \cup B$
, where $A,B$ are closed in $\mathbb{X}$ . Let
$f: A\rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ and $g: B \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ be
continuous. If $f(x)=g(x)$ for every $x\in A\cap B$ , then $f,g$ combine
to give a continuous function $h: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow\mathbb{Y}$ ,
defined by setting $h(x)=f(x),x\in A$ and $h(x)=g(x),x\in B$ .*
:::

::: {#def:CoordinateFunctions .theorem}
**Theorem 1.26** (Maps into products). *[]{#theorem:MapsIntoProducts
label="theorem:MapsIntoProducts"} [^46] Let
$f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{X}\times\mathbb{Y}$ be given by the equation
$$f(a) = (f_{1}(a),f_{2}(a))$$*

*Then, the function $f$ is continuous if and only if the functions
$$f_{1}: A \rightarrow \mathbb{X}, f_{2}: A \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$$ are
continuous.*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Let $\pi_{1},\pi_{2}$ be the projection function
$$
\begin{aligned}
            \pi_{1}&:& \mathbb{X}\times\mathbb{Y} \rightarrow \mathbb{X} \\
            \pi_{2}&:& \mathbb{X}\times\mathbb{Y} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}
      
\end{aligned}
$$

We first proof that if $U$ is an open subset of
$\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$ ,
$$f^{-1}(U) = f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(U)) \cap f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(U))$$

Let $x \times y \in U$ , $f^{-1}(x \times y)$ contains all $a$ such that
$f(a) = x \times y$ .

Then for any $a \in f^{-1}(x \times y)$ ,
$a \in f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(x \times y)), a \in f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(x \times y))$
.

Thus,
$f^{-1}(x \times y) \subseteq f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(x \times y)) \cap f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(x \times y))$
.

Thus
$f^{-1}(U) \subseteq f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(U)) \cap f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(U))$
.

Also, if
$a \in f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(x \times y)), a \in f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(x \times y))$
, $f_{1}(a) = x, f_{2}(a) = y$ .

Thus $f(a) = x \times y$ . Thus $a \in f^{-1}(x \times y)$ .

Thus $f^{-1}(U) = f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(U)) \cap f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(U))$

Let $U$ be any open subset of $\mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{Y}$

$$f^{-1}(U) = f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(U)) \cap f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(U))$$

Where $f_{1}^{-1}(\pi_{1}(U))$ and $f_{2}^{-1}(\pi_{2}(U))$ are both
open set. Thus $f^{-1}(U)$ is open. ◻
:::

### Exercise

1.  Let $\mathbb{Y}$ be an ordered set in the order topology. Let
    $f,g: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ be continuous, show that
    the set $A$ $\{ x | f(x) \le g(x) \}$ is closed in $\mathbb{X}$ .

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* We only need to proof $\mathbb{X}-A$ is open in
    $\mathbb{X}$ . We take $x \in \mathbb{X}-A$ . Thus $f(x) > g(x)$ .

    Let $U_{1},U{2}$ be the open set in $\mathbb{Y}$ that met the
    following demand
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      &&\forall y_{1} \in U_{1}, y_{2} \in U_{2}, y_{1} > y_{2} \\
                      &&f(x) \in U_{1}, g_{x} \in U_{2}
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$

    As $\mathbb{Y}$ is an ordered set, $U_{1},U{2}$ must exist.

    Let $U = f^{-1}(U_{1}) \cap g^{-1}(U_{2})$ . It is obvious that $U$
    is a open set, and $x \in U$ .

    Also, for any $y \in U$ . $f(y)>g(y)$ . Thus $U \subseteq A$ . Thus
    $A$ is an open set. ◻
    :::

2.  Let $\{A_{\alpha}\}$ be a collection of subsets of $\mathbb{X}$ ;
    let $\mathbb{X} = \cup_{\alpha}A_{\alpha}$ . Lef
    $f: \mathbb{X}\rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ ; suppose that $f|A_{\alpha}$
    is continuous for each $\alpha$ . An indexed family of sets
    $\{A_{\alpha}\}$ is said to be ***locally
    finite***[]{#def:LocallyFinite label="def:LocallyFinite"} if each
    point $x$ of $\mathbb{X}$ has a neighbourhood that intersect
    $A_{\alpha}$ for only finitely main values of $\alpha$ . Show that
    if the family $\{A_{\alpha}\}$ is locally finite and each
    $A_{\alpha}$ is closed, then $f$ is continuous.

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* For any closed subset $U$ of $\mathbb{Y}$ . Let
    $$V = \cup f|A_{\alpha}(U)$$

    We prove that $V$ is closed, so, $f$ is continuous.

    To prove that $V$ is closed, we prove that $\overline{V} = V$ . That
    is for any $x \in \overline{V}$ , we prove $x \in V$ . For any
    neighbourhood $B$ if $x$ , let $C_{B}$ denote the set that contain
    all $\alpha$ , such that $f|A_{\alpha(U)}$ intersect with $B$ . As
    $B$ intersect with $V$ , $C_{B}$ can not be empty.

    Let
    $$\mathbb{C} = \{ C_{B} | B \text{ be a neighbourhood of } x \}$$

    As $\{A_{\alpha}\}$ is locally definite, $\mathbb{C}$ contain at
    least one element with finite elements.

    Also $$C_{B_{1} \cap B_{2}} \subseteq C_{B_{1}} \cap C_{B_{2}}$$

    Let $\le$ be a partial order on the $\mathbb{C}$ . If
    $C_{B_{1}} \subseteq C_{B_{2}}$ , we say that
    $C_{B_{1}} \ge C_{B_{2}}$ .

    If there is chain in $\mathbb{C}$ $$C_{B_{1}} \le C_{B_{2}} \dots$$

    Let $C_{B_{0}}$ be a element of $\mathbb{C}$ with finite element. If
    $C_{B_{0}} \subseteq C_{B_{1}}, C_{B_{0}} \subseteq C_{B_{2}} \dots$
    . Then $C_{B_{0}}$ is a upper bound of the chain.

    If $C$ is not a subset of all element of the chain. Then we
    construct a new set say
    $$D = \{ C_{B_{0} \cap B_{1}}, C_{B_{0} \cap B_{2}} \dots \}$$

    Let
    $$\mathbb{D} = \{ C_{D_{1} \cap D_{2} \cap \dots } | C_{D_1}, C_{D_2}\dots \in D \}$$

    As $C_{B_{0}}$ is a finite set, $D$ is a finite set, $\mathbb{D}$ is
    also a finite set. Thus there must be a maximal element
    $E \in \mathbb{D}$ that is the subset of all element of $\mathbb{D}$
    . Then $E$ is a subset of all element of the chain. Thus $E$ is a
    upper bound of the chain.

    Thus, there must be a maximal element $C_{F}$ of $\mathbb{C}$ , that
    is a subset of all element of $\mathbb{C}$ .

    Let $G$ be the set be the union of all element of $C_{F}$ .

    As $C_{F}$ is finite, $G$ is closed. And all neighbourhood of $x$
    intersect with $G$ . Thus $x \in G$

    As $G$ is a subset of $V$ , $x \in V$ . So $V$ is closed. And $f$ is
    a continuous function on $\mathbb{X}$ . ◻
    :::

3.  Let $A$ be a subset of topological space $\mathbb{X}$ , let
    $\mathbb{Y}$ be a Hausdorff space. Let $f: A \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$
    be a continuous function. Let
    $g: \overline{A} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ also be a continuous
    function where $g(x) = f(x), x \in A$ . Prove that $g$ us uniquely
    determined by $f$ .[^47]

    ::: proof
    *Proof.* Say $g$ and $h$ are two distinct function that met the
    demand.

    So there exist $x_{0}$ such that $g(x_{0}) \neq h(x_{0})$ .

    As $\mathbb{Y}$ is a Hausdorff space, so there exist adjoint open
    subset $g(x_{0}) \in U$ and $h(x_{0}) \in V$ .

    Then $g^{-1}(U)$ and $h^{-1}(V)$ are both open subset of
    $\mathbb{X}$ that contain $x_{0}$ .

    If $g^{-1}(U) \cap h^{-1}(V) \cap A \neq \emptyset$ . Then there
    exist $x_{1} \in g^{-1}(U) \cap h^{-1}(V) \cap A$ such that
    $g(x_{1}) \in U$ and $h(x_{1}) \in V$ and $g(x_{1})=h(x_{1})$ .
    However $U$ and $V$ are disjoint. So there is a contradiction.

    As $^{-1}(U) \cap h^{-1}(V)$ is a open subset contain $x_{0}$ . So
    $^{-1}(U) \cap h^{-1}(V)$ must intersect with $A$ . So it is
    impossible that $g^{-1}(U) \cap h^{-1}(V) \cap A = \emptyset$ .

    So $g=h$ . ◻
    :::

## Metric Topology

::: {#def:Distance .definition}
**Definition 1.41** (metric). *[]{#def:Metric label="def:Metric"} A
***metric*** on a set $\mathbb{X}$ is a function
$$d: \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$$ having the
following properties:*

1.  *$d(x,y) \geq 0$ for all $x,y \in \mathbb{X}$ ; equality hold if and
    only if $x = y$*

2.  *$d(x,y) = d(y,x), \forall x,y \in \mathbb{X}$*

3.  *(Triangle Inequality)
    $d(x,y) + d(y,z) \geq d(x,z), \forall x,y,z \in \mathbb{X}$*

*Given a metric $d$ on $\mathbb{X}$ , the number $d(x,y)$ is often
called the ***distance***between $x$ and $y$ in the metric $d$ .*
:::

::: {#def:EpsilonBallCenteredAtX .definition}
**Definition 1.42** ( $\epsilon$ -ball centered at $x$ ). *[^48] Given
metric $d$ on a set $\mathbb{X}$ and $\epsilon > 0$ . The set
$$
B_{d}(x,\epsilon) = \{
                  y | d(x,y) < \epsilon
            \}
$$
is called $\epsilon$ -ball centered at $x$ .*
:::

::: {#def:MetricTopology .definition}
**Definition 1.43** (metric topology). *If $d$ is a metric on the set
$\mathbb{X}$ , then the collection of all $\epsilon$ -balls
$B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$ , such that $x \in \mathbb{X}$ and $\epsilon > 0$ ,
is a basis for a topology on $\mathbb{X}$ , called the ***metric
topology*** induced by $d$ .*
:::

::: {#def:MetricSpace .definition}
**Definition 1.44** (metrizable). *[]{#def:Metrizable
label="def:Metrizable"} If $\mathbb{X}$ is topological space,
$\mathbb{X}$ is said to be ***metrizable*** if there exists a metric $d$
on the set $\mathbb{X}$ that induces the topology of $\mathbb{X}$ . A
***metric space***is a metrizable space $\mathbb{X}$ together with a
specific metric $d$ that gives the topology of $\mathbb{X}$ .*
:::

::: {#def:Bounded .definition}
**Definition 1.45** (bounded). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a metric space with
metric $d$ . A subset $A$ of $\mathbb{X}$ is said to be ***bounded*** if
there is some number $M$ such that $$d(a_{1},a_{2}) \leq M$$ for every
pair $a_{1}$ and $a_{2}$ if points of $A$ .*
:::

::: {#def:Diameter .definition}
**Definition 1.46** (diameter). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a metric space with
metric $d$ . Let $A$ be a bounded subset of $\mathbb{X}$ . Then
***diameter*** is defined to be $$\mathrm{diam}A = \sup\{
                  d(a_{1},a_{2}) | a_{1}, a_{2} \in A      
            \}$$*
:::

::: {#def:StandardBoundedMetric .theorem}
**Theorem 1.27**. *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a metric space with metric $d$ .
Define
$\overline{d}: \mathbb{X} \times \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ by
the equation $$\overline{d}(x,y) = min\{
                  d(x,y),1
            \}$$*

*Then $\overline{d}$ is a metric that induces the same topology as $d$
.*

*The metric $\overline{d}$ is called the ***standard bounded
metric***corresponding to $d$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* It is obvious that $\overline{d}$ is a metric.

To prove that $d$ and $\overline{d}$ induces the same topology, it is
suffice to prove that for all $a \in X$ and $\epsilon > 0$ there exists
$\{a_{\alpha}\}$ and $\{\epsilon_{\alpha}\}$ where
$\epsilon_{\alpha} \leq 1$ such that
$$B_{d}(a,\epsilon) = \bigcup B_{\overline{d}}(a_{\alpha},\epsilon_{\alpha})$$

For every $x \in B_{d}(a,\epsilon)$ take $a_{x} = x$ and
$\epsilon_{x} < min(\epsilon - d(a,x),1)$ . Then
$$B_{d}(a,\epsilon) \supseteq B_{\overline{d}}(a_{x},\epsilon_{x})$$ as
for all $y \in B_{\overline{d}}(a_{x},\epsilon_{x})$
$$
\begin{aligned}
            d(a,y) &\leq& d(a,a_{x}) + d(a_{x},y) \\
            &<& min(\epsilon - d(a,x),1) + d(a,a_{x}) \\
            &\leq& \epsilon
      
\end{aligned}
$$

Thus $$B_{d}(a,\epsilon) = \bigcup_{
                  x \in B_{d}(a,\epsilon)
            } B_{\overline{d}}(a_{x},\epsilon_{x})$$ ◻
:::

::: {#def:Norm .definition}
**Definition 1.47** (norm). *Given $x = (x_{1},\dots,x_{n})$ in
$\mathbb{R}^{n}$ . The ***norm*** of $x$ is defined by the equation
$$
||x|| = (
                  x_{1}^{2}+\dots+x_{n}^{2}
            )^{\frac{1}{2}}
$$
*
:::

::: {#def:EuclideanMetric .definition}
**Definition 1.48** (euclidean metric). *The euclidean metric $d$ on
$\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is defined by $$d(x,y) = ||x-y||$$*
:::

::: {#def:SquareMetric .definition}
**Definition 1.49** (square metric). *The square metric $\rho$ on
$\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is defined by $$\rho(x,y) = max\{
                  |x_{1}-y_{1}|,\dots,|x_{n}-y_{n}|
            \}$$*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.8**. *Let $d$ and $d'$ be two metrics on the set $\mathbb{X}$
; let $\mathbb{T}$ and $\mathbb{T'}$ be the topology induced by $d$ and
$d'$ respectively. Then $\mathbb{T'}$ is finer than $T$ if and only if
for all $x \in \mathbb{X}$ and $\epsilon > 0$ , there exists a
$\delta > 0$ such that $$B_{d'}(x,\delta) \subseteq B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* If $\mathbb{T'}$ is finer than $\mathbb{T}$ . Then for all
$B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$ there exists a open set $U$ that containing $x$ such
that $U \subseteq B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$ . As $\{{B_{d'}(x,\delta)}\}$ is a
basis of $T'$ , then there exists $B_{d'}(x,\delta) \subseteq U$ that
containing $x$ .

If for all $B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$ , there exists
$B_{d'}(x,\delta) \subseteq B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$ . Then as
$\{{B_{d'}(x,\epsilon)}\}$ and $\{{B_{d}(x,\epsilon)}\}$ are both basis,
then $\mathbb{T'}$ is finer than $T$ . ◻
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.28**. *[^49] The topologies on $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ induced by
the euclidean metric $d$ and the square metric $\rho$ are the same as
the product topology on $\mathbb{R}^{n}$ .*
:::

::: {#def:UniformMetric .definition}
**Definition 1.50** (uniform metric, uniform topology). *Given an index
set $J$ , and given points $x = (x_{\alpha})_{\alpha \in J}$ and
$y = (y_{\alpha})_{\alpha \in J}$ of $\mathbb{R}^{J}$ , let us define a
metric $\overline{\rho}$ on $\mathbb{R}^{J}$ by the equation
$$
\overline{\rho}(x,y) = \sup\{
                  \overline{d}(x_{\alpha},y_{\alpha}) | \alpha \in J
            \}
$$
where $\overline{d}$ is the standard bounded metric on
$\mathbb{R}$ . $\overline{\rho}$ is called the ***uniform metric*** on
$\mathbb{R}^{J}$ , and the topology it induces is called the ***uniform
topology****
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.29**. *[^50] The uniform topology on $\mathbb{R}^{J}$ is
finer than the product topology and is coarser than the box topology.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.30**. *Let $\overline{d}(a,b) = \min\{
                  |a-b|,1
            \}$ be the standard bounded metric on $\mathbb{R}$ . If $x$
nad $y$ are two points of $\mathbb{R}^{\omega}$ , define
$$
D(x,y) = \sup\left\{
                  \frac{\overline{d}(x_{i},y_{i})}{i}
            \right\}
$$
*

*Then $D$ is a metric that induces the product topology on
$\mathbb{R}^{\omega}$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* The properties of a metric are satisfied trivially except for
the triangle inequality, which is proved by noting that for all $i$ ,
$$
\begin{aligned}
            \frac{\overline{d}(x_{i},z_{i})}{i} &\le& \frac{\overline{d}(x_{i},y_{i})}{i} + \frac{\overline{d}(y_{i},z_{i})}{i} \\
            &\le& D(x,y) + D(y,z)
      
\end{aligned}
$$
so that
$$
\sup\left\{
                  \frac{\overline{d}(x_{i},z_{i})}{i}
            \right\} \le D(x,y) + D(y,z)
$$

The fact that $D$ gives the product topology requires a little more
work. First, let $U$ be open in the metric topology and let $x \in U$ ;
we find an open set $V$ in the product topology such that
$x \in V \supseteq U$ . Choose an $\epsilon-ball$ $B_{D}(x,\epsilon)$
lying in $U$ . Then choose $N$ large enough that
$\frac{1}{N} < \epsilon$ . Finally, let $V$ be the basis element for the
product topology
$$V = (x_{1}-\epsilon,x_{1}+\epsilon) \times \dots \times (x_{N}-\epsilon,x_{N}+\epsilon) \times R \times R \times \dots$$

We assert that $V \in B_{D}(x,\epsilon)$ : Given any $y$ in
$\mathbb{R}^{\omega}$
$$\frac{\overline{d}(x_{i},y_{i})}{i} \le \frac{1}{N}, \forall i \ge N$$

Therefore, $$D(x,y) \le \max\left\{
                  \frac{\overline{d}(x_{1},y_{1})}{1},\dots,\frac{\overline{d}(x_{N},y_{N})}{N},\frac{1}{N}
            \right\}$$

If $y$ is in $V$ , this expression is less than $\epsilon$ , so that
$V \subseteq B_{D}(x,\epsilon)$ , as desired.

Conversely, consider a basis element
$$U = \prod_{i \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}} U_{i}$$ for the product topology,
where $U_{i}$ is open in $\mathbb{R}$ for
$i = \alpha_{1},\dots,\alpha_{n}$ and $U_{i} = \mathbb{R}$ for all other
indices $i$ . Given $x \in U$ , we find an open set $V$ of the metric
topology such that $x \in V \supseteq U$ . Choose an interval
$(x_{i}-\epsilon_{i},x_{i}+\epsilon_{i})$ in $\mathbb{R}$ centered about
$x_{i}$ and lying in $U_{i}$ for $i = \alpha_{1},\dots,\alpha_{n}$ ;
choose each $\epsilon_{i} \le 1$ . Then define $$\epsilon = \min \left\{
                  \frac{\epsilon_{i}}{i} | i = \alpha_{1},\dots,\alpha_{n}
            \right\}$$

We assert that $$x \in B_{D}(x,\epsilon) \subseteq U$$

Let $y$ be a point of $B_{D}(x,\epsilon)$ . Then for all $i$
$$\frac{\overline{d}(x_{i},y_{i})}{i} \le D(x,y) < \epsilon$$

Now if $i = \alpha_{1},\dots,\alpha_{n}$ , then
$\epsilon \le \frac{\epsilon_{i}}{i}$ , so that
$\overline{d}(x_{i},y_{i}) < \epsilon_{i} \le 1$ ; it follows that
$|x_{i}-y_{i}| < \epsilon_{i}$ . Therefore $y \in \prod U_{i}$ , as
desired. ◻
:::

::: {#def:HilbertCube .definition}
**Definition 1.51** (Hilbert Cube). *The set $$H = \prod_{
                  n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}
            } [0,\frac{1}{n}]$$ is called ***Hilbert cube****
:::

::: {#def:L2Topology .definition}
**Definition 1.52** ($l^{2}$-topology). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ be the subset
of $\mathbb{R}^{\omega}$ consisting of all sequences $x$ such that
$\sum x_{i}^{2}$ converges.*

*Then the formula $$d(x,y) = \left[
                  \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}(x_{i}-y_{i})^{2}
            \right]^{\frac{1}{2}}$$ defines a metric on $\mathbb{X}$ .
The topology induced by $d$ is called the $l^{2}$-topology.*
:::

::: {#def:FirstCountabilityAxiom .definition}
**Definition 1.53** (countable basis at point $x$ ).
*[]{#def:CountableBasisAtPointX label="def:CountableBasisAtPointX"} A
space is said to be have ***countable basis at point $x$*** if there is
a countable collection $\{
                  U_{n}
            \}_{n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}}$ of neighbourhoods of $x$ such
that any neighbourhood $U$ of $x$ contains at least on of the sets
$U_{n}$ . A space $\mathbb{X}$ that has a countable basis at each of its
point is said to satisfy the ***first countability axiom*** *
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.31**. *Let $f: \mathbf{X} \rightarrow \mathbf{Y}$ be
metrizable with metric $d_{\mathbf{X}}$ and $d_{\mathbf{Y}}$ ,
respectively. Then continuity of $f$ is equivalent to the requirement
that given $x \in \mathbb{X}$ and given $\epsilon > 0$ , there exists
$\delta > 0$ such that
$$d_{\mathbf{X}}(x,y) < \delta \implies d_{\mathbb{Y}}(f(x),f(y)) < \epsilon$$*
:::

::: proof
*Proof.* Suppose $f$ is continuous. Given $x$ and $\epsilon$ , consider
the set $$f^{-1}(B(f(x),\epsilon))$$ which is open in $\mathbb{X}$ and
contains the point $x$ . It contains some $\delta$ -ball $B(x,\delta)$
centered at $x$ . If $y$ is in this $\delta$ -ball, then $f(y)$ is in
this $\delta$ -ball as desired.

Conversely, suppose that the $\epsilon-\delta$ condition is satisfied.
Let $V$ be open in $\mathbb{Y}$ ; we show that $f^{-1}(V)$ is open in
$\mathbb{X}$ . Let $x$ be a point of the set $f^{-1}(V)$ . Since
$f(x) \in V$ there is an $\epsilon$ -ball $B(f(x),\epsilon)$ centered at
$f(x)$ and contained in $V$ . By the $\epsilon-\delta$ condition, there
exists a $\delta$ -ball centered at $x$ such that
$f(B(x,\delta)) \subseteq B(f(x),\epsilon)$ . Then $B(x,\delta)$ is a
neighbourhood of $x$ contained in $f^{-1}(V)$ , so that $f^{-1}(V)$ is
open, as desired. ◻
:::

::: {#def:TheSequenceLemma .lemma}
**Lemma 1.9** (The sequence lemma). *[^51] Let $\mathbb{X}$ be a
topological space; let $A \subseteq \mathbb{X}$ If there is a sequence
of points of $A$ converging to $x$ , then $x \in \overline{A}$ , the
converse holds if $\mathbb{X}$ is metrizable.*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.32**. *[^52] Let $f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ . If
the function $f$ is continuous, then for every convergent sequence
$x_{n} \rightarrow x$ , the sequence $f(x_{n})$ converges to $f(x)$ .
The converse holds if $\mathbb{X}$ is metrizable.*
:::

::: lemma
**Lemma 1.10**. *[^53] The addition, subtraction, and multiplication
operations are continuous functions from $\mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}$
into $\mathbb{R}$ ; and the quotient operation is continuous function
from $\mathbb{R} \times (\mathbb{R} - \{0\})$ into $\mathbb{R}$ .*
:::

::: theorem
**Theorem 1.33**. *[^54] If $\mathbb{X}$ is a topological space, and if
$f,g: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{R}$ are continuous functions, then
$f + g$ , $f - g$ and $f \cdot g$ are continuous. If $g(x) \neq 0$ for
all $x$ , then $\frac{f}{g}$ is continuous.*
:::

::: {#def:ConvergeUniformly .definition}
**Definition 1.54** (converge uniformly). *Let
$f_{n}: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ be a sequence of functions
from the set $\mathbb{X}$ to the metric space $\mathbb{Y}$ . Let $d$ be
the metric for $\mathbb{Y}$ . We say that the sequence $(f_{n})$
***converges uniformly*** to the function
$f : \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ if given $\epsilon > 0$ , there
exists an integer $N$ such that $$d(f_{n}(x),f(x)) < \epsilon$$ for all
$n > N$ and all $x \in \mathbb{X}$*
:::

::: {#def:UniformLimitTheorem .theorem}
**Theorem 1.34** (Uniform limit theorem). *Let
$f_{n} : \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ be a sequence of continuous
functions from the topological space $\mathbb{X}$ to the metric space
$\mathbb{Y}$ . If $(f_{n})$ converges uniformly to $f$ , then $f$ is
continuous.*
:::

::: {#def:IsometricImbedding .definition}
**Definition 1.55** (isometric imbedding). *Let $\mathbb{X}$ and
$\mathbb{Y}$ be metric spaces with metric $d_{\mathbb{X}}$ and
$d_{\mathbb{Y}}$ , respectively. Let
$f: \mathbb{X} \rightarrow \mathbb{Y}$ have the property that for every
pair of points $x_{1}$ , $x_{2}$ of $\mathbb{X}$ , and
$$d_{\mathbb{Y}}(f(x_{1}),f(x_{2})) = d_{\mathbb{X}}(x_{1},x_{2})$$*

*$f$ is an topological imbedding and is called an ***isometric
imbedding*** of $\mathbb{X}$ in $\mathbb{Y}$*
:::

[^1]: *The set $\mathbb{U}$ can form a topology because of the
    definition of topology is intersection of finite sub collection. If
    this can be intersection of infinite sub collection, $\mathbb{U}$
    will not be a topology.*

[^2]: Note that this expression may not be unique.

[^3]: *We omit the proof of this lemma as it is obvious.*

[^4]: *We omit the proof of this lemma as it is obvious.*

[^5]: *Whenever we consider $\mathbb{R}$ , we shall suppose it is given
    this topology unless we specifically state otherwise.*

[^6]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^7]: *It is obvious that $\mathbb{T}$ is a topology, we just omit the
    proof here.*

[^8]: It is obvious that $\mathbb{T'}$ is also a topology, we just omit
    the proof here.

[^9]: *The standard topology on $\mathbb{R}$ is an order topology
    derived from the usual order on $\mathbb{R}$ .*

[^10]: *open rays are always open sets in the order topology*

[^11]: *the open rays also formed a subbasis of the order topology*

[^12]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^13]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^14]: *In the finite case, the product topology and box topology are
    the same, however they differ when $\mathbb{X}$ is a infinite
    cartesian product.*

[^15]: *This is also called a ***projection mapping***in a cartesian
    product.*

[^16]: *A index set was the set $\{1,\dots,n\}$ or the set
    $\mathbb{Z}_{+}$ .*

[^17]: *It is assumed that it is given product topology when considering
    $\prod X_{\alpha}$ unless it state specifically.*

[^18]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^19]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^20]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^21]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^22]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^23]: *If $\mathbb{X}$ is an ordered set in the order topology, and
    $\mathbb{Y}$ is a subset of $\mathbb{X}$ . The order relation, when
    restricted to $\mathbb{Y}$ , makes $\mathbb{Y}$ into and ordered
    set. However, *the resulting order topology on $\mathbb{Y}$ need not
    be the same as the topology that $\mathbb{Y}$ inherits as a subspace
    of $\mathbb{X}$ .**

[^24]: *the dictionary means for
    $X_{1}, X_{2} \in \mathbb{Y} = \mathbb{X}_{1} \times \mathbb{X}_{2} \times \mathbb{X}_{3} \dots$
    which:
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      X_{1} &=& (x_{1},x_{2},x_{3}\dots)\\
                      X_{2} &=& (x_{1}',x_{2}',x_{3}'\dots)
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$
    $X_1 > X_2$
    only when
    $$
    \begin{aligned}
                      && \exists k \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}, \forall i \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}, 0 < i < k \\
                      && x_{i} = x_{i}'\\
                      && x_{k} > x_{k}'
                
    \end{aligned}
    $$
    *

[^25]: *Given $\mathbb{X}$ is an ordered set in the order topology and
    $\mathbb{Y}$ is a subset of $\mathbb{X}$ , we shall assume that
    $\mathbb{Y}$ *is given the subspace topology* unless we specifically
    state otherwise.*

[^26]: what does $\mathbb{X}$ , $\mathbb{X'}$ , $\mathbb{Y}$ ,
    $\mathbb{Y'}$ really mean here?? I do not know, so I just put the
    exercise here without a proof.

[^27]: The prove of this set is countable is typically similar to
    Cantor's enumeration of a countable collection of countable sets.

[^28]: *A set can be open, or closed, or both, or neither*

[^29]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^30]: *As the proof is similar to the case in the open set, so we omit
    the proof here.*

[^31]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^32]: *As the closure of $A$ in $\mathbb{X}$ and the closure $A$ in
    $\mathbb{Y}$ will sometimes be different. We always use
    $\overline{A}$ to denote the closure of $A$ in $\mathbb{X}$*

[^33]: *Some other mathematicians use neighbourhood to say that $U$
    merely contains an open set containing $x$ . The book does not give
    a formal definition for the word merely, and I am not sure either.*

[^34]: *Note that, $x$ may belong to $A$ or not, this does not matter.*

[^35]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^36]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^37]: *In real line, a sequence can not converge to multiple points,
    but for an arbitrary topological space, this is possible.*

[^38]: *This implies that a sequence in a Hausdorff space cannot
    converge to multiple points. The following theorem prove this.*

[^39]: *The condition every finite point set is closed is weaker than
    the Hausdorff space condition. For instance, the finite complement
    topology of $\mathbb{R}$ met the condition of finite point set.
    However it is not a Hausdorff space.*

[^40]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^41]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^42]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^43]: *As the continuity of a function is different as the topological
    spaces are different. So if we want to emphasis this fact, we say
    that $f$ is continuous ***relative***to specific topologies on
    $\mathbb{X}$ and $\mathbb{Y}$ .*

[^44]: *A equivalent way to define homeomorphism, is that for any open
    subset $U$ of $\mathbb{X}$ , $f(U)$ is open if and only if $U$ is
    open.*

[^45]: *The proof of this theorem is similar to the \"Local formulation
    of continuity\" condition of \"Rules for constructing continuous
    functions\", so we omit the proof here.*

[^46]: *The map $f_{1},f_{2}$ are called the ***coordinate
    functions***of $f$*

[^47]: It is possible that $g$ does not exist.

    Let $\mathbb{X}$ be the real line with order topology. Let
    $\mathbb{Y}$ be $\{0,1\}$ .

    Let $A = \mathbb{X} - \{0\}$ .

    Let, $$f(x) = \begin{cases}
                            1, & x > 0 \\
                            0, & x < 0
                      \end{cases}$$

    So, it is obvious that $f$ is a continuous function on $\mathbb{X}$
    . However $g$ does not exist in this case.

[^48]: *When no confusion will arise, the metric $d$ may be omit in
    $B_{d}(x,\epsilon)$*

[^49]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^50]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^51]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^52]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^53]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*

[^54]: *We omit the proof of this change@code@ as it is obvious.*
