---
title: "Group Theory Note"
date: "2024-11-26"
tags: ["Group Theory", "Algebra", "Mathematics", "Math", "Note"]
toc: true
categories: ["Mathematics"]
---

# Group Theory Note

## Introduction

This is my personal note on group theory.

## Group Actions

### Orbit and Stabilizer

### Burnside's Lemma

#### Group With $2$ Conjugacy Classes

Group $G$ with $2$ conjugacy classes, are particularly interesting.
As only finite groups have $2$ conjugacy classes, well be $C_2$.
And any group with $2$ conjugacy classes is simple.
Thus, it may serve as a good example to infinite simple groups.

::math-env-start{theorem}

If $G$ is a group with $2$ conjugacy classes, then $G$ is simple.

::math-env-end{theorem}

::math-env-start{proof}

As $1$ itself is a conjugacy class, the other conjugacy class must be all the other elements.

Let $N$ be a non-trivial normal subgroup of $G$.
Take $x \in N$ such that $x\neq 1$.
Then for any $y\in G$, $y\neq 1$,
there exists $g\in G$ such that $gxg^{-1} = y$.
Thus, $N=G$.

::math-env-end{proof}

::math-env-start{theorem}

If $G$ is a finite group with $2$ conjugacy classes, then $G$ is isomorphic to $C_2$.

::math-env-end{theorem}

::math-env-start{proof}

As $1$ itself is a conjugacy class, the other conjugacy class must be all the other elements.

By Burnside's lemma, we have the following equation:
$$
2 = \frac{1}{|G|}\sum_{g\in G}|C(g)| = 1 + \frac{1}{|G|}\sum_{g\neq 1, g \in G}|C(g)|.
$$
Where $C(g) = \{x\in G \mid gxg^{-1} = x\}$, which is the elements that is fixed by $g$.
As $g$ must fix $1$ and itself, thus, for any $g\neq 1$, $|C(g)| \ge 2$.

Therefore, we have the following inequality:
$$
2= 1 + \frac{1}{|G|}\sum_{g\neq 1, g \in G}|C(g)| \ge 1 + \frac{2}{|G|}(|G|-1) = 2.
$$
Which then gives us the equality:
$$
|G| \le 2.
$$

::math-env-end{proof}


## Abelian Group

In this section, we will only focus on Abelian groups.
And we will use the additive notation for the group operation.

### Free Abelian Group

::math-env-start{definition}

An Abelian group $F$ is **free Abelian** if it is a direct sum of infinite cyclic groups.
More precisely, there is a subset $X \subseteq F$ of elements of infinite order,
called a **basis** of $F$, with $F = \sum_{x\in X}$; i.e., $F = \sum\mathbb{Z}$.

::math-env-end{definition}

::math-env-start{theorem}

There is an infinite p-primary group $\mathbb{Z}(p^{\infty})$
each of whose proper subgroups is finite and cyclic.

::math-env-end{theorem}

::math-env-start{proof}

We define a group $G$ have generators:
$$
X = \{x_0,x_1,\dots,x_i,\dots\}, i\in\mathbb{N}
$$
with relations:
$$
\{
    px_0, x_0 - px_1, x_1 - px_2, \dots, x_i - px_{i+1}, \dots
\}
$$

We let $F$ be the free Abelian group generated by $X$.
And let $R \le F$ be the subgroup generated by the relations.
Let $a_i = x_i + R \in F/R = G$, as $\{x_0,x_1,\dots\}$ form a basis of $F$,
$\{a_0,a_1,\dots\}$ form a basis of $G$.
And as $pa_0 = 0$, $pa_1 = a_0$, $pa_2 = a_1$, $\dots$,
for every $a_i$, we have $p^{i+1}a_i = 0$. So $G$ is a p-primary group.

To prove $G$ is infinite, we prove that $a_i$ are distinct.
Assume $a_i = a_j$ for some $i< j$.
Then by previous reasoning, we have $a_i = p^{j-i} a_j$,
which implies $(p^{j-i}-1) a_j= 0$.
And previous reasoning also shows that $p^{j+1}a_j = 0$.
Thus, the order of $a_j$ must divides $\gcd(p^{j+1} , p^{j-i}-1) = 1$.
Which implies $a_j = 0$, which is a contradiction.

Take $H$ to be a proper subgroup of $G$.
By previous argument, for all $j< i$,
$a_j$ is in the cyclic group generated by $a_i$.
Thus, we have
$$
    G = \bigcup_{i=0}^{\infty} \langle a_i \rangle.
$$
If $H$ is finite, then there must be $n$ such that $H \subseteq \langle a_n \rangle$.
Then $H$ is a subgroup of finite and cyclic group, thus $H$ is finite and cyclic.

If $H$ is infinite, then there must be a sequence of elements in $H$,
say $\{h_1, h_2, \dots\}$, such that $h_i \in \langle a_{n_i} \rangle$,
and $h_i \notin \langle a_{n_i-1} \rangle$.
Assume $h_i = ka_{n_i}$,
then $\gcd(k,p)$ must be $1$,
as otherwise $h_i$ will be in $\langle a_{n_i-1} \rangle$.
Then $h_i$ also generate $\langle a_{n_i} \rangle$,
which implies $a_{n_i} \in H$.
And thus, $a_i \in H, \forall i$, which implies $H = G$.

::math-env-end{proof}

### Divisible and Reduced Groups

::math-env-start{definition}

A group $G$ is called **divisible** if for every $a \in G$ and every positive integer $n$, there exists an element $b \in G$ such that $nb = a$.

::math-env-end{definition}

::math-env-start{example}

The group $\mathbb{Z}(p^\infty)$ is divisible.

::math-env-end{example}